# Social expectations

This is what might be called a "code of conduct" on another
project—to me that term sounds a bit too harsh and bureaucratic
for something I'm maintaining, but the spirit is similar. My hope
is that all this will seem natural and straightforward to you,
but if you have any questions, please create an issue or contact
me in private. The short of it is that I want everyone to act in
a way that facilitates friendly, easy cooperation, where everyone
involved is enjoying themselves and feels supported by the other
participants. This takes a measure of good faith on everyone's
part as well as a genuine interest in working together. The
principles that follow are intended to help bring this about.

When evaluating the quality of anyone's ideas, code, bug reports,
or other contributions to the project, I want everyone to focus
only on the abstract content of the work itself as opposed to
irrelevant details about the person sharing it or the way in
which they communicate (aside from asking questions to clarify
their meaning and such). If someone tells you that 1 + 1 = 2
within the conventional rules of arithmetic, you don't need to
know anything about them to know that that's true—all you need is
basic knowledge of arithmetic and their statement. Similarly, if
someone tells you that 2 + 2 = 5 in the same context, you don't
need to know anything more to know that this statement is false.
Note also that neither statement tells you anything for sure
about the person who made the statement, so you don't have solid
ground on which to assume anything about them afterwards. This
goes for your own work as much as anyone else's—even if you come
from a background that is very much in the minority among
English-speaking programmers, please believe in the quality of
your own work if you've done your best to provide for it! All
this will help ensure that good work is made available to the
project, and that flawed work can be improved with the absolute
minimum of hurt to its originator.

Along those lines, I would like everyone to be able to have as
much fun as they can here, all other things being equal. So, I
don't see any reason for anyone to pursue modes of behavior that
will tend to invite unhappiness in some other participants if
they don't directly further the goals of the project. Even if
they do further those goals, it seems only natural to try to
minimize the unhappiness that is produced. This includes modes of
behavior that tend to please some people at the cost of others—if
they're not necessary, there's no reason for them, and if we must
engage in them we should do it in a way that minimizes this
effect as far as possible.

In that spirit, I want everyone to respect the demographic
background of the other participants on the project. What I mean
by that is the attributes of a person a
[demographer](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demography) might be
likely to track and which they have little-to-no control
over—things like their gender or lack thereof, race and/or
ethnicity, place of origin, age, native language, plurality, and
so on. I also want everyone to be accomodating of poverty, as
well as things like lack of formal education, unemployment,
persecuted immigration status, etc. that are much more easily
dissipated through wealth than without. What I mean by "respect"
and "accomodate" is to be attentive to the ways in which other
participants may differ from and especially be less empowered
than you on these bases, and to act in ways that make it as easy
and comfortable for someone who does have those differences to
participate as they do for you.

This includes addressing people as they wish to be addressed—
name, pronouns, titles, etc. Using "they" for a specific person
is only okay with me if that person likes it or you're talking
about a distant third party whose pronouns you can't easily
verify—it's no better than anything else to me if you're using it
as a cop-out. By the same token, you have the right to ask other
participants to use whatever terms of address you would like. The
one exception is terms of address that are bound to hurt other
people, like those involving slurs, insults, put-downs, etc.; in
that case, you can probably figure out something that you like
that isn't actively designed to sow discord. Let's all work to
look after each other and help each other to feel comfortable.

Please do your best to assume good faith on the part of the other
participants when there's room for it. If you react to someone's
behavior with hostility at first blush, it will tend to
precipitate a fight; this may be called for sometimes, but if the
situation is just due to a misunderstanding it's both rather
tragic and not great for the project. This doesn't mean you
should put up with mistreatment, just that you should probably
assume someone is uninformed or confused as opposed to actively
hostile unless evidence shows otherwise.

That said, if someone is antagonizing you here or otherwise
willfully disregarding the principles in this document, and you
feel like you could use a hand, let me know right away and I'll
step in if I haven't already. Tagging me in the thread is a fine
way to get my attention, but if you'd rather not do that, see [my
website](https://milky.flowers/) for other ways—Twitter DM and
email are both good, probably. On the same basis, if you feel
that I am not living up to my own words here, please say so
however you feel comfortable—as the maintainer, it's more
important that I follow through on all this than anyone else.
